README.md, before:

# <u>Game *"Battle Armour"*</u>

## <u>Concept</u>

This game is heavily inspired on the arcade game [Tank Battalion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tank_Battalion), created by Namco, released in 1980.
The original game was created and originally released in Japan under the name of "タンクバタリアン (Tanku Batarian)". A year later it was released to the US market.

The game was later re-released with drastic improvements under the name of [Battle City](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_City) as well as [Tank Force](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tank_Force).

This project will be a general recreation of the original 1980 game in Java.
The idea is that the game runs on Windows, Mac and Linux with no emulation required.

My version will be implementing something similar to the original game, with a smoother FPS and smoother movement.
I will also make custom perks and balance the game in the way I believe it is difficult enough to be engaging, but still physically doable.

## <u>GAMEPLAY</u>

The game features both single player and co-op modes.
Players can move around the map and shoot bullets at enemies and destroy blocks.
The idea of the game is to get the highest score and compete with other teams and players.
It's also a game that teaches cooperation, as the players can work together to destroy higher tier enemies such as heavies.

The game also has plenty of perks which can be picked up by the player to give them an advantage and make the game interactive.
Different enemy types also have different properties, such as the exploding enemy which explodes on death.

The game also features a procedural spawning system, which means that enemies will spawn forever, until the player(s) lose.
The high scores are stored in a database, which can be accessed by the player(s) to see their high scores.

Once the players get bored with the game, they can also create their own maps and play on them as well as share them with other players.
They can also easily add new textures and blocks with customised properties.

## <u>OPTIONS & CONTROLS</u>

The default controls are WASD for movement and SPACE for shooting [PLAYER 1].<br>
The default controls are ARROW KEYS for movement and ENTER for shooting [PLAYER 2].

The controls can be changed in the options menu.

<br>

The options UI menu is currently in development. It will feature the ability to change the controls, resolution and sound volume without needing to restart the game.
All settings except for fullscreen are implemented.
As of right now, you can manually change the settings by altering the `Config.java` file.

The settings include:
- Resolution - the game will always target the biggest square resolution possible, so if you have a 1920x1080 monitor, the game will target 1080x1080.
- ~~Fullscreen - the game will run in fullscreen if this is set to true.~~
- FPS limit - the FPS limit of the game. A value between 0 and 240.
- Sound volume - the volume of the sound effects. A value between 0 and 1.
- Music volume - the volume of the music. A value between 0 and 1.
- Controls - the basic controls of the play menu.

## <u>ENEMIES</u>

### <u>Enemy Information</u>
Enemies are the main threat to the player. They will try to destroy the player(s) tanks and the base.<br>
Enemies will procedurally spawn forever, until the player(s) lose.<br>
The higher the score, the faster enemies will spawn.<br>
The spawn tables are also weighted, so the higher the score, the more likely it is for a higher tier enemy to spawn.<br>
With co-op, the spawn rate is also increased due to the increased advantage the players have.

### <u>Enemy Types</u>
- **BASIC** enemies are the weakest enemies. They are the fastest and have the least health.
- **HEAVY** enemies are the strongest enemies. They are the slowest and have the most health.
- **FAST** enemies are the fastest basic enemies.
- **EXPLODING** enemies are a special type of enemy which explodes on death, dealing damage to the player and damaging all nearby blocks in the vicinity.<br>
They will also prefer to target the base over the player.

## <u>PERKS</u>

### <u>Perk Information</u>

Perks are special items which can be picked up by the player to give them an advantage.<br>

All perks have a timer. One the timer runs out the perk will be taken away from the player.<br>
Some perks also have additional properties, such as the **PENETRATING_BULLETS** perk, which has a limited number of uses.<br>

### <u>Perk Stacking</u>

Certain perks can be stacked, and will have slightly different implementations.<br>
For example, the **DOUBLE_DAMAGE** perk can be stacked as many times, giving the player a chance to one tap heavies or bricks.<br>
The **SHIELD** perk can be stacked as many times. Picking up will reset the timer for the shield.<br>
The **QUAD_SHOT** perk can be stacked as many times, it resets the number of available quad shots as well as the timer.

### <u>Perk Spawning</u>

Perks have a chance to spawn when an enemy is killed. The chance of a perk spawning is 1 in 5.<br>
The choice of perks is random, but the chance of a perk spawning is the same for all perks.


### <u>Perk Types</u>
There are different types of perks. These include:
- **QUAD_SHOT** perks allow the player to shoot 4 bullets at once in each direction.
- **DOUBLE_DAMAGE** perks allow the player to deal double damage to blocks and tanks.
- **SHIELD** perks allow the player to take 1 hit before dying.
- **SPEED_BOOST** perks allow the player to move faster.
- **FAST_SHOT** perks allow the player to shoot faster.
- **BULLET_PROPULSION** perks allow the player to shoot further/faster.
- **PENETRATING_BULLETS** perks allow the player to shoot through multiple enemies.
- ~~**EXPLOSIVE_BULLETS** perks allow the player to shoot bullets which explode on impact.~~ WIP

## <u>BLOCKS</u>
### <u>Block Types</u>

There are different types of blocks. These include:
- **BRICK** blocks are destructible blocks which can be destroyed by the player.
- **EDGE** blocks are an indestructible block which is placed around the map to prevent the player from moving out of the map as well as provide balance so enemies don't straight away target the base.
- **WATER** blocks are a special block which allow the player to shoot through, but not move through them.
- **LEAVES** are another special block, which aims to obstruct the view of the tanks traveling below.

### <u>Automatic block adding system</u>

Blocks can also be easily added to the game by adding a new block type to the `BlockType` enum, as well as adding a new image to the `resources/images/blocks` folder named the same as the enum.
The game will automatically pick up the new block type and use the image. You will be able to use the build menu to create a game with the new block type and play a round with the new textures!

### <u>Build mode exclusive blocks</u>

The build mode also features a block type called **NONE**. This block type is used to remove blocks from the map.

**ENEMY SPAWN** and **PLAYER SPAWN** designated blocks are also used in build mode to place the spawn points for the enemies and players.
There can only be 2 player spawn points and unlimited enemy points. The game will automatically pick up the spawn points and use them in the game.

## <u>BUILD MODE</u>

The build mode allows the player to create their own maps, share them and play them.
To load a map, the player must press `L` on the keyboard. This will open a file chooser, where the player can select a map file to load.
The map file must be a `.level` file. The validity of the map file is checked upon loading.

To save a map, the player must press `ESC` on the keyboard. This will open a file chooser, where the player can select a map file to save to.
The map file must be a `.level` file. The validity of the map file is checked upon saving.

To quit without saving, the player can press `BACKSPACE` on the keyboard.

To place a block, the player can left-click on the mouse.<br>
To cycle through the block types the player can right-click on the mouse or use `SPACE`.

## <u>HIGH SCORE</u>

The high score system stores all scores in a database. This database is currently local, but it's possible to have a remote database.
The high score system is also used to store the player's name, which is used in the high score table.
If a player has played on a map before, and they achieved a higher score, their name will be updated in the database.

Each level has a different high score table.<br>
When saving or selecting a file to display data for, the files are hashed and the hash is used to identify the level.<br>
This prevents cheating by editing the files to get a high score.

## <u>Planned features</u>

- [ ] Adding new pickups like explosive bullets (partially complete)
- [ ] Settings to change the controls and resolution (partially complete)

## <u>Copyright & Disclosure</u>

### <u>Art</u>
Some pieces of art are [DALL.E](https://openai.com/blog/dall-e/) generated images, which are licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
These pieces are edited by me to fit the game. Other pieces are created by me in Illustrator and Piskel.

### <u>Code</u>
All code is written/authored by me, unless otherwise stated.

Imported additional libraries are licensed under their respective licenses, and created by their respective authors.
<br>
These libraries include:
- city.cs.engine - unknown licence
- javazoom.jlayer - licenced under the [Lesser General Public License (LGPL) version 2.1](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/lgpl-2.1)
- org.xerial.sqlite-jdbc - licenced under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
- org.jetbrains.annotations - licenced under the [Apache LSicense, Version 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

### <u>Fonts</u>

PressStart2P font is used in this project, which is licensed under the [SIL Open Font License](https://github.com/cityteaching/javaproject2023-Supermarcel10/blob/main/src/main/resources/legal/PressStat2P-OFL.txt).
The font is created by CodeMan38 and can be found [here](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Press+Start+2P).

### <u>Sounds</u>

The following utilised sounds are created by [Dark Fantasy Studio](https://www.youtube.com/c/DarkFantasyStudioNicolasJeudy) and are licensed under the [Dark Fantasy Studio Licence](https://github.com/cityteaching/javaproject2023-Supermarcel10/blob/main/src/main/resources/legal/DARK_FANTASY_STUDIO_LICENCE.pdf).
These tracks are paid for and are NOT free to use. To receive a licence in your name, you must purchase the tracks from [Dark Fantasy Studio](https://www.youtube.com/c/DarkFantasyStudioNicolasJeudy).
<ul>
<li>Tank Shot (Album: Earth Spell)</li>
<li>Block Break (Album: Earth Spell)</li>
</ul>

The following utilised sounds are created by [Mixkit](https://mixkit.co/) and are licenced under the [Mixkit Sound Effects Free Licence](https://mixkit.co/license/).
<ul>
<li>Button Click</li>
<li>Game Over</li>
<li>Game Start</li>
<li>Power Up (High)</li>
<li>Power Up (Low)</li>
<li>Player Dead</li>
<li>Player Move</li>
<li>Main Menu Music</li>
</ul>

The following utilised sounds are created by [ZapSplat](https://www.zapsplat.com) and are licenced under the [Standard Licence](https://www.zapsplat.com/license-type/standard-license/).
<ul>
<li>Tank Explode</li>
</ul>

### <u>Music</u>

The below utilised music tracks are created by [Joel Steudler](https://joelstudler.ch) and are licensed under the [Joel Steudler Music Licence](https://github.com/cityteaching/javaproject2023-Supermarcel10/blob/main/src/main/resources/legal/Joel_Steudler_Music_License_Agreement_2023.pdf).
These tracks are paid for and are NOT free to use. To receive a licence in your name, you must purchase the tracks from [Joel Steudler's website](https://joelstudler.ch).

<ul>
<li>Battle At The Stones</li>
<li>Fight or Flight</li>
<li>Heroes Rise</li>
<li>Honorbound Army</li>
<li>Rise Above Darkness</li>
<li>Warband Marauders</li>
<li>Wasteland Warrior</li>
</ul>

The below utilised music tracks are created by [Dark Fantasy Studio](https://www.youtube.com/c/DarkFantasyStudioNicolasJeudy) and are licensed under the [Dark Fantasy Studio Licence](https://github.com/cityteaching/javaproject2023-Supermarcel10/blob/main/src/main/resources/legal/DARK_FANTASY_STUDIO_LICENCE.pdf).\
These tracks are paid for and are NOT free to use. To receive a licence in your name, you must purchase the tracks from [Dark Fantasy Studio](https://www.youtube.com/c/DarkFantasyStudioNicolasJeudy).

<ul>
<li>Venom</li>
</ul>

Commit message:

- Added example score. - Added video to README.md

README.md, after:

# <u>Game *"Battle Armour"*</u>

## <u>Concept</u>

This game is heavily inspired on the arcade game [Tank Battalion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tank_Battalion), created by Namco, released in 1980.
The original game was created and originally released in Japan under the name of "タンクバタリアン (Tanku Batarian)". A year later it was released to the US market.

The game was later re-released with drastic improvements under the name of [Battle City](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_City) as well as [Tank Force](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tank_Force).

This project will be a general recreation of the original 1980 game in Java.
The idea is that the game runs on Windows, Mac and Linux with no emulation required.

My version will be implementing something similar to the original game, with a smoother FPS and smoother movement.
I will also make custom perks and balance the game in the way I believe it is difficult enough to be engaging, but still physically doable.

## <u>GAMEPLAY</u>

The game features both single player and co-op modes.
Players can move around the map and shoot bullets at enemies and destroy blocks.
The idea of the game is to get the highest score and compete with other teams and players.
It's also a game that teaches cooperation, as the players can work together to destroy higher tier enemies such as heavies.

The game also has plenty of perks which can be picked up by the player to give them an advantage and make the game interactive.
Different enemy types also have different properties, such as the exploding enemy which explodes on death.

The game also features a procedural spawning system, which means that enemies will spawn forever, until the player(s) lose.
The high scores are stored in a database, which can be accessed by the player(s) to see their high scores.

Once the players get bored with the game, they can also create their own maps and play on them as well as share them with other players.
They can also easily add new textures and blocks with customised properties.

The general game example video can be found [here](https://youtu.be/tA_aZCYutT4).

## <u>OPTIONS & CONTROLS</u>

The default controls are WASD for movement and SPACE for shooting [PLAYER 1].<br>
The default controls are ARROW KEYS for movement and ENTER for shooting [PLAYER 2].

The controls can be changed in the options menu.

<br>

The options UI menu is currently in development. It will feature the ability to change the controls, resolution and sound volume without needing to restart the game.
All settings except for fullscreen are implemented.
As of right now, you can manually change the settings by altering the `Config.java` file.

The settings include:
- Resolution - the game will always target the biggest square resolution possible, so if you have a 1920x1080 monitor, the game will target 1080x1080.
- ~~Fullscreen - the game will run in fullscreen if this is set to true.~~
- FPS limit - the FPS limit of the game. A value between 0 and 240.
- Sound volume - the volume of the sound effects. A value between 0 and 1.
- Music volume - the volume of the music. A value between 0 and 1.
- Controls - the basic controls of the play menu.

## <u>ENEMIES</u>

### <u>Enemy Information</u>
Enemies are the main threat to the player. They will try to destroy the player(s) tanks and the base.<br>
Enemies will procedurally spawn forever, until the player(s) lose.<br>
The higher the score, the faster enemies will spawn.<br>
The spawn tables are also weighted, so the higher the score, the more likely it is for a higher tier enemy to spawn.<br>
With co-op, the spawn rate is also increased due to the increased advantage the players have.

### <u>Enemy Types</u>
- **BASIC** enemies are the weakest enemies. They are the fastest and have the least health.
- **HEAVY** enemies are the strongest enemies. They are the slowest and have the most health.
- **FAST** enemies are the fastest basic enemies.
- **EXPLODING** enemies are a special type of enemy which explodes on death, dealing damage to the player and damaging all nearby blocks in the vicinity.<br>
They will also prefer to target the base over the player.

## <u>PERKS</u>

### <u>Perk Information</u>

Perks are special items which can be picked up by the player to give them an advantage.<br>

All perks have a timer. One the timer runs out the perk will be taken away from the player.<br>
Some perks also have additional properties, such as the **PENETRATING_BULLETS** perk, which has a limited number of uses.<br>

### <u>Perk Stacking</u>

Certain perks can be stacked, and will have slightly different implementations.<br>
For example, the **DOUBLE_DAMAGE** perk can be stacked as many times, giving the player a chance to one tap heavies or bricks.<br>
The **SHIELD** perk can be stacked as many times. Picking up will reset the timer for the shield.<br>
The **QUAD_SHOT** perk can be stacked as many times, it resets the number of available quad shots as well as the timer.

### <u>Perk Spawning</u>

Perks have a chance to spawn when an enemy is killed. The chance of a perk spawning is 1 in 5.<br>
The choice of perks is random, but the chance of a perk spawning is the same for all perks.


### <u>Perk Types</u>
There are different types of perks. These include:
- **QUAD_SHOT** perks allow the player to shoot 4 bullets at once in each direction.
- **DOUBLE_DAMAGE** perks allow the player to deal double damage to blocks and tanks.
- **SHIELD** perks allow the player to take 1 hit before dying.
- **SPEED_BOOST** perks allow the player to move faster.
- **FAST_SHOT** perks allow the player to shoot faster.
- **BULLET_PROPULSION** perks allow the player to shoot further/faster.
- **PENETRATING_BULLETS** perks allow the player to shoot through multiple enemies.
- ~~**EXPLOSIVE_BULLETS** perks allow the player to shoot bullets which explode on impact.~~ WIP

## <u>BLOCKS</u>
### <u>Block Types</u>

There are different types of blocks. These include:
- **BRICK** blocks are destructible blocks which can be destroyed by the player.
- **EDGE** blocks are an indestructible block which is placed around the map to prevent the player from moving out of the map as well as provide balance so enemies don't straight away target the base.
- **WATER** blocks are a special block which allow the player to shoot through, but not move through them.
- **LEAVES** are another special block, which aims to obstruct the view of the tanks traveling below.

### <u>Automatic block adding system</u>

Blocks can also be easily added to the game by adding a new block type to the `BlockType` enum, as well as adding a new image to the `resources/images/blocks` folder named the same as the enum.
The game will automatically pick up the new block type and use the image. You will be able to use the build menu to create a game with the new block type and play a round with the new textures!

### <u>Build mode exclusive blocks</u>

The build mode also features a block type called **NONE**. This block type is used to remove blocks from the map.

**ENEMY SPAWN** and **PLAYER SPAWN** designated blocks are also used in build mode to place the spawn points for the enemies and players.
There can only be 2 player spawn points and unlimited enemy points. The game will automatically pick up the spawn points and use them in the game.

## <u>BUILD MODE</u>

The build mode allows the player to create their own maps, share them and play them.
To load a map, the player must press `L` on the keyboard. This will open a file chooser, where the player can select a map file to load.
The map file must be a `.level` file. The validity of the map file is checked upon loading.

To save a map, the player must press `ESC` on the keyboard. This will open a file chooser, where the player can select a map file to save to.
The map file must be a `.level` file. The validity of the map file is checked upon saving.

To quit without saving, the player can press `BACKSPACE` on the keyboard.

To place a block, the player can left-click on the mouse.<br>
To cycle through the block types the player can right-click on the mouse or use `SPACE`.

## <u>HIGH SCORE</u>

The high score system stores all scores in a database. This database is currently local, but it's possible to have a remote database.
The high score system is also used to store the player's name, which is used in the high score table.
If a player has played on a map before, and they achieved a higher score, their name will be updated in the database.

Each level has a different high score table.<br>
When saving or selecting a file to display data for, the files are hashed and the hash is used to identify the level.<br>
This prevents cheating by editing the files to get a high score.

## <u>Planned features</u>

- [ ] Adding new pickups like explosive bullets (partially complete)
- [ ] Settings to change the controls and resolution (partially complete)

## <u>Copyright & Disclosure</u>

### <u>Art</u>
Some pieces of art are [DALL.E](https://openai.com/blog/dall-e/) generated images, which are licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
These pieces are edited by me to fit the game. Other pieces are created by me in Illustrator and Piskel.

### <u>Code</u>
All code is written/authored by me, unless otherwise stated.

Imported additional libraries are licensed under their respective licenses, and created by their respective authors.
<br>
These libraries include:
- city.cs.engine - unknown licence
- javazoom.jlayer - licenced under the [Lesser General Public License (LGPL) version 2.1](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/lgpl-2.1)
- org.xerial.sqlite-jdbc - licenced under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
- org.jetbrains.annotations - licenced under the [Apache LSicense, Version 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

### <u>Fonts</u>

PressStart2P font is used in this project, which is licensed under the [SIL Open Font License](https://github.com/cityteaching/javaproject2023-Supermarcel10/blob/main/src/main/resources/legal/PressStat2P-OFL.txt).
The font is created by CodeMan38 and can be found [here](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Press+Start+2P).

### <u>Sounds</u>

The following utilised sounds are created by [Dark Fantasy Studio](https://www.youtube.com/c/DarkFantasyStudioNicolasJeudy) and are licensed under the [Dark Fantasy Studio Licence](https://github.com/cityteaching/javaproject2023-Supermarcel10/blob/main/src/main/resources/legal/DARK_FANTASY_STUDIO_LICENCE.pdf).
These tracks are paid for and are NOT free to use. To receive a licence in your name, you must purchase the tracks from [Dark Fantasy Studio](https://www.youtube.com/c/DarkFantasyStudioNicolasJeudy).
<ul>
<li>Tank Shot (Album: Earth Spell)</li>
<li>Block Break (Album: Earth Spell)</li>
</ul>

The following utilised sounds are created by [Mixkit](https://mixkit.co/) and are licenced under the [Mixkit Sound Effects Free Licence](https://mixkit.co/license/).
<ul>
<li>Button Click</li>
<li>Game Over</li>
<li>Game Start</li>
<li>Power Up (High)</li>
<li>Power Up (Low)</li>
<li>Player Dead</li>
<li>Player Move</li>
<li>Main Menu Music</li>
</ul>

The following utilised sounds are created by [ZapSplat](https://www.zapsplat.com) and are licenced under the [Standard Licence](https://www.zapsplat.com/license-type/standard-license/).
<ul>
<li>Tank Explode</li>
</ul>

### <u>Music</u>

The below utilised music tracks are created by [Joel Steudler](https://joelstudler.ch) and are licensed under the [Joel Steudler Music Licence](https://github.com/cityteaching/javaproject2023-Supermarcel10/blob/main/src/main/resources/legal/Joel_Steudler_Music_License_Agreement_2023.pdf).
These tracks are paid for and are NOT free to use. To receive a licence in your name, you must purchase the tracks from [Joel Steudler's website](https://joelstudler.ch).

<ul>
<li>Battle At The Stones</li>
<li>Fight or Flight</li>
<li>Heroes Rise</li>
<li>Honorbound Army</li>
<li>Rise Above Darkness</li>
<li>Warband Marauders</li>
<li>Wasteland Warrior</li>
</ul>

The below utilised music tracks are created by [Dark Fantasy Studio](https://www.youtube.com/c/DarkFantasyStudioNicolasJeudy) and are licensed under the [Dark Fantasy Studio Licence](https://github.com/cityteaching/javaproject2023-Supermarcel10/blob/main/src/main/resources/legal/DARK_FANTASY_STUDIO_LICENCE.pdf).\
These tracks are paid for and are NOT free to use. To receive a licence in your name, you must purchase the tracks from [Dark Fantasy Studio](https://www.youtube.com/c/DarkFantasyStudioNicolasJeudy).

<ul>
<li>Venom</li>
</ul>
